[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
One subject that
continues to mystify
we human beings is sex.
It can be the most sublime
or the most conflicted area
of life.
In my last conversation
with Ellen Eatough, who
is termed the soulful sex
coach, we spoke of the reasons
we hide behind masks,
withhold and refuse
to trust when it comes
to our sex lives.
Today we discussed some
profound new technologies
for helping us ease into our
true selves while making love,
and that's really what
it's all about, isn't it?
>>ELLEN EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Easing
into our true selves
which is-- that's a
journey in itself.
Forget the sex part.
That's just a journey.
>>EATOUGH: Right.
That's a life
journey right there.
>>REGINA: So what
I'd like to do first
off for whoever may not have
seen our first conversation
and even for those returning
to this conversation
from that one, is give
us a little synopsis
of what we spoke about by way
of kind of the sacred wound
and what we're coming
out of as a species.
And then we'll go
into what we're
going to be talking about
in this conversation.
>>EATOUGH: OK.
Well basically,
I feel that there
is a widespread cultural
split, religious split,
personal split, family
split between sexuality
and spirituality.
And so many people as they're
growing personally and evolving
and trying to become
more spiritually aware,
are feeling this
split so profoundly,
and that's a conflict
for a lot of people.
It becomes an energetic
split, a psychological split,
emotional split.
Whether we like it or not, we
often have to deal with it.
And then we talked about my
definition of ecstatic love
making, which is
really an integrated
experience of intense
physical, sexual pleasure
with deep emotional intimacy
and spiritual union.
>>REGINA: And we also
spoke about the whole
putting the spiritual
completely above the physical
as though that is a
low-- to be in a body
is a very lowered status.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
That's where this
split comes from.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>EATOUGH: Eastern
religions, often
from the whole
inheritance we have
from the Greek philosophers
where they separated
the psyche, the
mental-spiritual as being better
than the soma, which was the
feminine side of lives, which
included sexuality,
and childbirth,
and the emotional
side of life, what
we might call the
messy side of life.
And that was the beginning
of misogyny and it--
it's perpetuated so deeply
and fully in our culture
that a lot of people
feel like they can either
be sexual or spiritual,
but they can't be both.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>EATOUGH: Not at
the same time anyway.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And it is interesting because
we talked about one instance.
It was about one of your clients
who had had a pain in her body
that they couldn't
diagnosis, a chronic pain.
And it turned out
it'd really come
from this collective
experience from past lives
even into this
lifetime, this timeline.
And when you're
looking at something
that is so distant,
and so pervasive,
and such a part of--
really it's almost
part of our electrical
DNA, these feelings,
these experiences,
of ourselves, you're
talking about a fair amount
of rewiring that has to go on.
>>EATOUGH: Especially
when we've got
stuff that's locked in the
body physically and symptoms,
emotionally, which have
other kinds of symptoms.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it really
start shutting down
the flow of energy.
We talked about
that quite a bit.
So now let's talk
about what you're
going to be sharing with
us in this conversation
before we start getting
into the particulars.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah,
well, I think we
want to talk about
transcendent sex, the research
I've participated in on
that topic, how that led me
to figure out, and these
four keys to sexual ecstasy
and how that ended up
not just being a way
to help open people to
transcendent lovemaking
by the research definition,
but what ended up
being something
that helped people
have the best sex
of their lives.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>EATOUGH: And just whatever
their own standard was.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I look forward to that
part of the conversation.
>>EATOUGH: And about really
resistance to pleasure
and how we can expand
our capacity for pleasure
and healing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And let's go back
for just a moment.
>>EATOUGH: We also too, we want
to talk about sex and aging.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We want to talk about
sex as we age as well.
And we talked a bit about-- you
were just mentioning the fact
that a couple
thousand years ago, we
went into the era of the mind
where the mind was elevated
over the emotions and over
even in the Greek philosophers,
they were bringing
in spirit into mind,
but down into the
emotions and the physical.
That's where that cut off came.
But you also work
with technologies
that help us access brain
states that are fundamentally
healthy and friendly to the
process of letting our masks go
and making love, and we're going
to talk about that technology
too.
>>EATOUGH: Right.
Well, it's a combination
of brain wave entrainment
and subtle energies.
>>REGINA: And subtle energies.
>>EATOUGH: Like color,
sound, energetic frequencies,
resonant frequencies.
>>REGINA: A subject that I'm
absolutely fascinated with.
So first of all, let's talk
about Jenny Wade's research
and how you-- I mean you
were a hypnotherapist.
You also had your master's
in east-west psychology.
How did you stumble
into Jenny Wade's world?
Who is Jenny Wade?
Let's talk about her.
>>EATOUGH: Jenny
Wade is a professor
at the Institute for
Transpersonal Psychology
in Menlo Park, California.
She's a consciousness
researcher,
and she wrote a book on
consciousness development.
And through her own
personal experience,
she started research on what
she called transcendent sex.
Now, I had been working
for a number of years
helping people release
physical and relationship
and sexual trauma or
wounding of whatever level
using the color that I
projected into the eyes
and other energetic tools.
And then I started having
my own what I found
were called transcendent
sexual experiences
and actually it was my last
semester in grad school getting
my master's when
I heard her speak.
And it was in a class on
transpersonal perspectives
on sexuality and relationship.
And she started describing
these case studies
where people were having these
totally-altered experiences
during lovemaking, and
I'm going, oh, my god.
We're not the only
ones, because this
is kind of where
I had found myself
through the previous couple
of years and wondering like,
are we the only ones?
It turns out no, thankfully.
And her definition was a little
different than my definition
of ecstatic lovemaking.
But her definition
of transcendent sex
is first without any particular
intention like tantra practice
or psychotropic
drugs or anything.
People spontaneously
found themselves
in a sort of altered
state, what she defined
as a change of agency-like
perception of who you are.
Like you might perceive
yourself to be someone else,
or something else, something
in nature, or animals,
or whatever, and/or
a change of time.
Like one couple found themselves
being in a past life together,
and they could all describe the
physicality of the environment
and the clothes they were
wearing, and everything.
It's a simultaneous
past-life experience,
or finding themselves in some
Greek culture or whatever,
or a shift in time or place,
so time, place, or agency.
And that was her definition.
And she said, if anybody had
any experiences in this realm
I'd love to talk with
you, and I ended up
becoming a research
subject in her study.
And then next thing I knew when
her book was being published
under a subsidiary of
Simon and Schuster,
she called me because she
knew that I was trying to-- I
had a website.
I was trying to share what
this whole thing on ecstatic
love making with people.
So she said, they're willing
to do workshops on sex,
and I'm a consciousness
researcher.
I don't do that.
So let's do something together.
So we ended up each doing sort
of complementary workshops.
Hers academic, mine experiential
on transcendent sex.
This is at the
International Conference
on Sacred Sexuality in
Santa Fe, New Mexico.
>>REGINA: I want to,
at some point, go back
to what you mentioned,
which was like you said,
not on psychotropic drugs
and specific practices
such as tantra.
We'll talk about
that in a little bit
because I want to talk
about what you feel
and what you've seen in people
that have actually utilized
these other aids, so to speak,
to reach a certain point.
But first, let's talk about
what you ended up developing
from there, which is the
four keys to sexual ecstasy,
and spend some time
talking to us about that.
>>EATOUGH: So, first
of all, I thought
I was creating a program
for this conference,
a workshop on how to open
yourself to transcendent sex.
And by her definition,
I was trying
to help people open
themselves, which
I believe is a state of grace.
You can't force it, but I
feel you can open yourself
to it, to some of
these altered states.
>>REGINA: You can
set an intention
that you are open to it even.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
But I thought, what
is it helps do that?
So I spent pretty much
a number of months.
I'd been researching all
of this for quite a while,
because I was really
trying to say, OK.
What is it?
How do we help
people open to this?
And I came up with
these four keys,
and I took people through
some experiential exercises.
Now, these were not
sexual in nature.
I gave some sexual
information, but the exercises
were taking people into
a state of intimacy,
and I'll describe
these four keys.
But the cool thing that was
totally unexpected for me
was, that after this half-day
workshop, the next morning as I
was trying to get to the
bottom to the next lecture
at this hotel in the
conference, people
were like beating a path to my
door to give me hugs and thank
me for the best
sex of their lives.
The people that were couples--
because the workshop had
170 people and
probably half of them
were couples-- people
were oh, my god.
They weren't having
altered state experiences.
They were just having the
best most deeply-connected,
most sexually-exciting,
most spiritually-connected--
>>REGINA: --which
is a huge step up
from where most people
are day in and day out.
>>EATOUGH: Right.
So I went, oh, my god.
I've got something here.
I've got to do
something with this.
So that's when I ended up
creating a product that people
could use in the privacy
of their own homes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So let's talk about it.
Let's talk about the four keys.
>>EATOUGH: OK.
So do you want to
know what they are?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>EATOUGH: OK.
The first key, and we've
talked about this, is trust.
It is so important.
Trust is, in particular
the kind of sexual trust
that we talked about last time,
is really related to freedom.
I think in life in
general, trust and freedom
go hand in hand.
You can't have one
without the other.
If you have more freedom,
you have more trust.
If you have more
trust, it naturally
leads to more freedom.
And in this case,
freedom is like freedom
to be able to express
yourself fully,
freedom to be able to ask
for what you want and need,
freedom to be able to
maybe make weird sounds,
or weird facial
expressions, or to not
have to control yourself
during love making.
>>REGINA: You self image.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
For fear of being
judged, or thought
weird, or the neighbors hearing
the noises, or whatever.
So that trust is so important.
And now it just occurred to me.
There is, in fact, a little
tip for your listeners.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>EATOUGH: And this one
comes from Louann Brizendine.
She wrote two books, one
called "The Female Brain,"
the other called
"The Male Brain."
And in "The Female Brain,"
through her research,
she noticed that women,
their trust levels
go up when you have like a
full-body, 20-second hug.
>>REGINA: Margot Anand
talks about that as well.
Starting the day with
that full-body hug.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
So my prescription to
keep the juices flowing
in a relationship is, every
day to have that 20-second--
and you can be fully clothed.
That's fine.
But a full embrace for 20
seconds where you really
can feel each
other's heart beat,
so to speak, followed
by a 10-second kiss.
And if you can add
another 30 seconds to each
say some expression of
appreciation for each other,
but something
different each day.
Like, I just really love when
we have eye contact that I just
feel like you're so
beautifully there
or something, whatever it is,
each day to find something
to appreciate them.
>>REGINA: That one minute--
>>EATOUGH: That takes
a total of 60 seconds.
And if we can't do that--
>>REGINA: You're not too
committed to the process.
>>EATOUGH: --not too committed
to the relationship, yeah.
But trust is the first key.
>>REGINA: And so let's
talk about the man's
brain and trust.
What creates trust for the man?
>>EATOUGH: To be honest, I'm
not clear on that one yet.
>>REGINA: When you were saying
she wrote those two books.
>>EATOUGH: I haven't
gotten to the second book.
I bought the second book.
I haven't finished reading it.
>>REGINA: OK.
So for the woman, that is what's
required to create that trust?
>>EATOUGH: But also
trust creates oxytocin.
It creates the bonding
for both partners.
>>REGINA: Brain chemical.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>EATOUGH: --which is
the nurturing hormone.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's a great little tip.
I appreciate that.
And any more on trust, or
should we go on to the next key?
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
I think we can go into that.
>>REGINA: Let's go
into entrainment.
>>EATOUGH: Entrainment
is the-- it's
a natural phenomenon
on the planet where
the rhythms of any
object will affect
the rhythms of other
objects with beats
that aren't as strong.
And this sort of--
as far as I know,
the original understanding of
this happened in Switzerland.
This guy put like dozens
of pendulum clocks
on the wall-- in a
factory or something--
and of course, when you
set pendulum clocks,
they're all going to be
tick-tocking chaotically;
you can't set them at the
same microsecond, right?
Leave them alone for
two or three days,
and they will all
be tick-tocking
in perfect synchrony.
These are inanimate objects.
I mean, they're moving, but--
they're coming in synchronous.
>>REGINA: There's something
about the field that
allows for entrainment.
>>EATOUGH: And many people are
familiar with situations where
women who live in
community, like in college
dorms or spiritual communities
with her menstrual cycles
will start to synchronize.
And fireflies will start to--
even when they start to swarm,
their blinking will
start to synchronize,
so it';s just a
natural phenomenon.
So at any given time,
we have a number
of different brain waves
cycling in our brain.
Different parts of
our brain, typically,
are cycling at somewhat
different speeds,
but there's usually
a predominant brain
wave happening.
So when we're trying
to figure things out,
or when we're trying to follow
a recipe, or write a report,
or balance our
checkbook, we're in beta.
And that's cognitive
processing kind of state.
A little bit slower
is alpha, which
is sort of a meditative state.
It's a receptive state.
It's a time when we're
often receptive listening
to a lecture, often watching
television, or driving
on the open road, and you start
to get all these great ideas
and make connections.
That's because the
peripheral vision passing by
causes you to go
into an alpha state.
And if there's a rhythm
in your environment,
whether it's a clicking sound
or music that has brain wave
entrainment in it, it can help
your brain slow down from beta
down into an alpha state
or slow down even further
into a theta brain wave
state, which is slower.
And it's a state when we're
typically asleep and dreaming.
It has high visual imagery.
It's what I often use in
my private practice helping
people access more information--
>>REGINA: The memory.
>>EATOUGH: --to get to the
root of issues and shift them.
It's what people often are
taken into via hypnosis
into alpha or theta.
It's a very deep
meditative state.
If people are
accomplished meditators,
they might go that deep.
And it just happens
to be researched
to be the ideal
state for lovemaking
because in theta, when we have
a predominantly theta brainwave
patterns, we have heightened
sensory perceptions,
so we're more aware
of our pleasure.
We are more aware of our
own emotional states.
We have more of a
holistic awareness
of our partner and their needs
and their emotional state
and ours, and it just
helps us tap into that.
In fact, one brainwave
research expert,
Dr. Jeffrey Thompson has put out
lots of brainwave entrainment
products, music products.
He very emphatically
says that theta
is the ideal state for
great sex and talked
about creating an
orgasmatron or something.
So it's definitely
the place to go.
But in this workshop,
when I was first
presenting these four
keys to sexual ecstasy,
during one of these intimacy
exercises that I was guiding
people into, I put on a little
piece of Jeffrey Thompson's
music, but the only
piece that seemed
ideal for the situation
that had some rhythm to it
because I was asking people
to move, it was pretty short.
It was about three minutes long.
It was classical music.
And after people were
sharing their experiences
and had these amazing
experiences and Jenny Wade
happened to walk in during
part of this, and she was,
oh, my god.
People were falling in love.
What was happening?
And so I then
confessed to people
that I was using brain
wave entrainment,
and I was explaining that.
And they all wanted the music,
so that planted my seed.
But entrainment can
happen in other ways.
In tantra, they teach you
to try to breathe together
because our bodies
will naturally
entrain within our own
biological systems.
So you know that when you
slow your breathing down,
your heart rate will
slow down, which
will help your
brain to slow down,
which helps you go into
deeper meditative states.
So the ancients knew
this intuitively.
Right?
Also the eyes are like
the windows to the soul,
and they're actually like the
frontal lobes of the brain.
So when you have soft,
gazing eye contact
into another person's
eyes, you will
start to make not only
an energetic connection,
a soulful connection,
but you'll start
to make a connection
like brainwave wise.
And they've hooked
people up to electrodes
to track their brainwaves
during conversation.
They find that when
people non-sexually
feel like they're have a
deeply-connected conversation
that their brainwaves are
starting to synchronize.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>EATOUGH: So if you can have
an external stimulus that
helps your brainwaves slow
down, it affects both partners.
It helps both partners to
feel very connected or in sync
because they're synchronizing
all of their body systems,
start to get closer
into a similar rhythm--
>>REGINA: No.
That makes perfect sense.
>>EATOUGH: --and it makes
you feel deeply connected
with the other person.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And they've done also
brainwave experiments
with people who are
in separate locations,
where you send the feeling
of love or appreciation.
I remember Patrick
Flanagan years
go telling me that he and
his wife Stephanie had been
monitored through I think it
was maybe part of the HeartMath
Institute, doing this
particular experiment
and monitoring their EKG.
And he was the
sender of the love.
And in doing so, she was
just having conversations
with other people,
didn't know when
he was going to be sending.
They were just separated.
But what happened
was, as she was just
kind of going on
with their life,
slowly, his intention
and feeling of love
started bringing her heart
rhythms and his together.
It was very interesting.
>>EATOUGH: Much
more advanced work.
>>REGINA: More advanced
work, but very simple work,
very profound, I
mean, because even
if you have one
partner who really
is able to hold that love
and project that feeling,
that's really important too.
One person, you
don't have to have--
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>EATOUGH: --both people
with clear intention.
One will do.
>>EATOUGH: Because the one
with the stronger frequency,
it's just like if you
turn your dial on a radio
and you're listening
to a program,
and you drive along and there's
another frequency that's coming
in stronger, it will start
to interfere take over--
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>EATOUGH: --that channel.
And so the one with
the stronger frequency
can help influence
the other and bring--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>EATOUGH: --synchronization.
That's why it's really a
profound key to ecstatic
lovemaking, because
when you feel
that non-verbal connection,
it's very powerful.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>EATOUGH: And it
feels very intimate.
>>REGINA: Now, let's
talk about-- that
leads to the next key
which is absorption.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
Now, this one was-- we
kind of all know this,
like when you really tune
into your sensory perception,
you know, you can feel more.
But there's actually
some research done
on this by a Dr.
Sandra Scantling,
and she wrote a book
which is out of print now,
but it's called "Ordinary
Women, Extraordinary Sex."
And she talked about
super sexual experiences
and was trying to
figure out what
it is that makes
the people that have
these experiences
different than others,
and it was mostly women that
she wasn't working with.
And her intuition
was that the women
that she'd had in
her research that
had these great
experiences might
be kind of responding more
than the average person
to a measurable trait.
And there was a thing called
the Tellegen Absorption Scale.
It's one of a group of
psychological tools,
like an assessment tool
that's used in psychology.
And so she took
a section of this
to analyze people's ability to
really tune into-- and absorb
is the word she used-- absorb
into their sensory experience
with their minds, their
being, their awareness
to absorb literally
into their senses.
And fortunately, although
this is an aptitude,
it's a natural aptitude.
Some people just do this
naturally more than others,
but we can learn to do it more.
>>REGINA: That's good,
because our culture really
prizes beta functioning.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Keep
going, going, going.
Work extra hours in the office.
>>EATOUGH: Figure it out.
>>REGINA: Figure it out.
A type personalities
are exalted.
>>EATOUGH: And I'm
guilty of that.
Probably the worst.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And so when you're trying
to calm down and relax
and maybe you
decided you're going
to be intimate with your mate,
the beta brain is still going.
The laundry list is
still going, which
is like the absolute
mortal enemy--
>>EATOUGH: Especially for women.
I have to say men are
much more adept at kind
of moving from their
head to their pelvis
when theY get ready for sex.
Women have a much more difficult
time making that transition.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, aside
from being able to have access
to some of the technologies,
do you have some little trick
or two for women to start
getting out of the head, just
a trigger point so we can
start getting out of the head.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
One is, you know, your partner
can help you with this,
but women can start themselves.
If you know that sex is
on the menu for evening
or in the morning,
or whatever it is,
you can do things to
start your transition.
For example, if
you're commuting home,
anything like spraying
on a little cologne,
putting lotion on
your hands, anything
that starts to trigger
your own sensory awareness.
Taking a bubble bath,
just meditating for a bit
to get out of the beta brain,
get your brainwaves slowed down
because that will help you get
into that sensory awareness.
So just anything
that will help you--
>>REGINA: Anything that
will put you into the body.
>>EATOUGH: --tune
into your body.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And so anything more
on the absorption part?
>>EATOUGH: Well, yeah because
if you have a partner,
you want to train
your partner, and that
is to help women to get out of
their head and into their body.
A lot of men, because
what they often like
is sort of a direct hit
to the genitals to get it
turned on, which is
great to do for your guy.
But they don't know
that for women,
if you do a direct hit to
the genitals or the breasts,
it's fun in a playful way.
It's fun to kind of
keep the juices flowing
throughout the week, but when
you're getting ready for sex,
men don't realize
and women often
don't either that we
kind of subconsciously,
unconsciously contract at that.
Even though we want it, it's
like if it comes too soon--
>>REGINA: Yeah,
what's up with that?
>>EATOUGH: --and then it's like
a hurdle we have to get past,
and it's because we haven't
had time to warm up.
So the man knows this, to help
a woman get out of her head
because she's not there.
She's not into her body yet.
Right?
So it's too big a leap.
So starting with
the extremities,
foot massage, holding hands,
kiss on the back of the neck
while she's at the computer
in the kitchen, that
will kind of send
shivers down any woman
and get her into
her body, typically.
Kissing, eye contact,
touching-- holding
the face, that will help
get her out of her head
and into her body.
Words of affection
and love will start
to help her move
down into her heart.
And see, for women
are like water,
so men are more like fire.
Again, women are like water,
and so our energy flows down,
and so we got to flow it out
of the head, into the heart,
and down.
And so once your
heart starts to open
and you're tuned into your
awareness of your body,
then your energy flows
down to your pelvis
and your legs wanna open.
Till then, it's really hard.
You know?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I hear a lot of women though, a
lot of women talk about-- yeah.
He just kind of goes right for
it, and everything contracts.
And just like you said contracts
>>EATOUGH: You can't help it.
Even if you really
want to have sex--
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>EATOUGH: --it just
becomes a hurdle,
then you have to get past.
But women, once we're really
getting into our sexuality--
as we talked about
before-- often
have a much more easy time
having full-body orgasms
or feeling our sexuality
throughout our bodies.
We don't realize that this is
not as natural for most men.
>>REGINA: Is it
natural for most women
to have whole-body-- talk about
what a whole-body orgasm is,
and is that natural
for most women.
Is it common?
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
Well, the physiological
orgasm is--
it's the contraction of
the pubococcygeal muscles.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>EATOUGH: OK.
But it's also an
energetic experience.
And so women will often
feel their orgasms just
like an energetic experience
throughout their bodies.
It might be tingling, and
relaxation, or it might be,
I mean it's--
>>REGINA: It's convulsing.
>>EATOUGH: Different
for a lot of women.
It can be convulsing.
It can be-- it's like a sense
of light and color or firework.
And it's very different
for so many women,
but men can have just
as powerful orgasms,
but they often don't feel
it beyond their genitals
or their pelvic area.
And so while you're
making love with a man,
you could actually
help spread his energy.
>>REGINA: How do you do that?
>>EATOUGH: By starting
more with the genitals
and then either caressing
him, or even just sort
of like sweeping his
energy a half inch
or inch off his skin just like
you're caressing the energy,
and like going around to his
buttocks and down his legs
and up his torso, up
his chest, or whatever
you can reach in the position
you're in, up his back,
up his chest, around his
neck, and down his arms.
And this will gradually
help him start
the energy-- him to become
aware of his senses.
>>REGINA: It's moving the field.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And it helps him to become
more aware of his body.
>>REGINA: And can that happen,
you say just above the body
or how about just
very light touch?
>>EATOUGH: Both.
And it doesn't have to be
just-- it could also be firm.
It can be massaging depending.
Maybe you're in a really
sort of tense-- you know,
intense period, and so
it might be even subtle
scratching or hard
massaging, because men often
like stronger touch than women
do, just evolutionary wise.
So then he's more aware of
his whole body, so by the time
he has an orgasm,
he's able to feel it
more throughout his body,
and the energy spreads
more rapidly.
So it's a win-win.
So a woman could approach
her partner saying,
I've learned
something that I can
help you spread your energy
throughout your body,
but it's just the
opposite of what I need.
Would you like to
know what I need
to get hotter and
juicier for you faster?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>EATOUGH: Give him the goal.
You've got to have the angle.
>>EATOUGH: The goal is for
you get turned on faster,
then tell him that you
need to warm up, and bring
that energy in.
Men are like fire.
Their energy moves
up, and this is also
why you know you hear that
women need sex to feel love.
No.
Women need love to
feel sex and men--
It seems like a stereotype.
And men need sex to feel love.
But it's true for
a lot of people,
and that's why men often
connect most deeply
with their partner
during sexual lovemaking
because their energy is like
firing from their pelvis--
when their energy isn't blocked.
When they're not just in it
for the sexual gratification,
but when they do love their
partner, as that energy moves
up to their heart, it's
when they can most fully
feel their love for their
partner as that sexual energy
intensifies.
>>REGINA: So it's that
reverse polarity thing where
the woman's energy has to
come out and the men's-- yes.
>>EATOUGH: Like
water moving down,
the men's energy is
like fire moving up.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
I learned this from
Taoist sexuality.
I mean, the ancients
knew so much.
>>REGINA: Yes.
The tao of sexuality,
very interesting.
Then you go from absorption to
building sexual energy, which
it sounds to me--
>>EATOUGH: Building
and circulating.
>>REGINA: --and circulating.
>>EATOUGH: And
that's part of that.
>>REGINA: So that's
part of that.
Yeah.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And the problem is
that people often, they
get to a point of
intensity and then it
gets to a point of almost,
well, you either get going
and you just want
to have that orgasm,
or it gets almost to
a point of discomfort
where you either have to
push forward to climax
and have the release or back
off because it's too much.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Blowing the circuits.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And so building
sexual energy we could
talk about expanding
our capacity
for more and more pleasure.
And then the kind of things
I was talking about in terms
of moving sexual energy
just a moment ago,
masculine and feminine,
and clearing out
the blocks to the
energy that really
wants to flow up and around.
When energy gets
more intense, when
we can handle more energy
without dissipating
it or backing off from it,
and we can circulate it.
I mean, that's just like--
>>REGINA: That's ecstatic sex.
>>EATOUGH: --that's
like giving fuel
for a rocket to blast off
into the stratosphere.
>>REGINA: But instead, we
often try to resist pleasure.
>>EATOUGH: We rarely
try to resist it.
>>REGINA: We do.
Yeah.
We resist.
Why do we as a species
resist pleasure?
>>EATOUGH: I don't know if I
know the answer to the why.
>>REGINA: Animals don't do that.
>>EATOUGH: No.
I think it can be because of
culture, cultural restrictions
like, oh.
Too much pleasure is bad.
If I feel too much
pleasure, I might
lose control and then
what would happen?
I might get judged.
Maybe I'll do
something really weird.
I don't know what that will be.
Or maybe it's just
too hedonistic.
We judge ourselves,
or it actually
does become too intense.
It's like it can become
almost uncomfortable
because the pleasure
can become too intense.
>>REGINA: Is that a
fear of losing control?
>>EATOUGH: Maybe,
but I think it also
is because we just haven't
learned to get comfortable.
>>REGINA: --learned what to
do with that amount of energy.
>>EATOUGH: We just haven't
learned to get comfortable
with that amount of pleasure.
It's like we just haven't
quite felt that much
and still been OK.
So-- but we can
expand our capacity
to experience more pressure.
You want a quick tip on that?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>EATOUGH: Well, one is if
you liken our sexual pleasure
energy system to
like a balloon, you
know the first time
you blow up a balloon,
a brand new balloon, it's
kind of hard to blow up.
You try to blow it up and
gets to a certain size.
But have you ever noticed if
you let the air out and then
blow it up again,
it's easier to blow
farther because that membrane
has become more flexible.
So you could do this with
your own sexual energy.
And one way to do this, you
could do it with a partner,
but one way to start
is with yourself
through self-pleasuring,
you know, light the candles,
put on the music, take
the bath, whatever
it is that gets you interested.
And really start
caressing yourself,
and get yourself turned on
and really stimulate yourself
sexually to a point
of really getting--
get as close as you can
to the point of no return,
but you could still back off.
Now that may feel really
uncomfortable to not go
all the way because you
really do want a release.
Like, oh damn, I'm
so close to orgasm.
Can't I just keep going for it?
>>REGINA: Right.
Very frustrating, yes.
>>EATOUGH: But if you want
to, you can back off and then
do other things for a while.
Dance, sing, put on music,
or go about your day,
and you may not even
come back to it,
but you'll have a lot of energy.
Or if you come back to it and
then start pleasuring yourself
again, you'll find
that you can even
have a more powerful
orgasm because there's
more energy built up to it.
It's like that
balloon has expanded.
And you can experience
more pleasure
before the orgasm
occurs, and then it
can be a more powerful orgasm.
And you can do this
in partner lovemaking
where you could get
close, and you back off,
and you get close,
and you back off,
and you learn just
in synchronization
with your partner,
you may not both get
close at the same time,
but as you do that
and you back off, you get to
a point where when you finally
do climax, if that's
how you're going,
then it'll be much
more powerful.
>>REGINA: More potential
for whole body.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
Or you may enter what I
call an orgasmic state.
In tantra, they often call
it like a valley orgasm.
But it gets to a
place where it's
like riding orgasmic waves.
It's not quite the
same as a peak orgasm.
You can still do that.
But it's like-- this is when
you hear about people having
an orgasm for hours, is they
tap into that orgasmic state,
and it's like surfing
or riding the waves.
I'm not a surfer.
I'm totally flat terrain.
Feels like surfing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
No.
That's very enticing.
And so a lot of
people that don't
know how to do these things,
they don't have the skill
set developed yet, try to
do it through other means,
and I alluded to this at the
top of the conversation--
and I wanted to ask you
about this-- and that
includes drugs to try
to reach that state.
Well, sex, drugs,
and rock and roll.
OK.
There you have the '60s, '70s,
'80s, '90s, 2000, sex, drugs,
and rock and roll.
But then there are
very specific kinds
of drugs, psychotropic
drugs, ecstasy,
for example, that people
have used and attempted
to use in kind of
an experimental way
to see how far they could
go in opening themselves.
And I had one
experience that way,
which I'll tell
you about a minute,
but what is your view
of that, and what
have you seen as the
end result of that?
>>EATOUGH: Well, I do know
people have said, how do I
get off of needing
marijuana just to enjoy sex.
Because the truth is,
biochemically, it's
going to heighten your
sensory perception,
probably more than theta
brain wave entrainment will.
But there's so much we can do to
heighten our sexual experience
if you don't want to feel like
you're stuck having to have
gone to all the time
in order to enjoy sex.
And there is so much you
can do, and the other thing
about marijuana is, it can
tend to-- it can heighten
your sensory perception and
your energetic perception so
much that you often become
sort of in yourself and not
necessarily as much
connected with your partner.
And I think that's-- you know,
the truth is there's an up
and down.
There's a trade
off for everything.
And I think that's
one of the trade offs
is you don't necessarily-- you
may be both-- you're sharing
an experience, but
it's not necessarily
a shared experience.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>EATOUGH: You're more separate
than trying to do it together.
>>REGINA: So that brings
me that little scenario
that I don't know
if I should mention,
but I'll go ahead and mention
it just because it's really,
I don't think it's
that uncommon,
but one time, my partner
and I, at the time,
he was in an experimental phase.
He said, let's try ecstasy
together, and I don't do drugs,
and I'd never taken ecstasy,
but I said, well, OK.
Yeah.
Let's give it a shot.
And what happened for me was
a totally solo experience.
I mean, and I think his
hope was that it would
be this beautiful
blending together,
but I was having
a wonderful time.
I mean, I was-- But the problem
is I was not in my body at all.
And see that's
what I'm wondering.
I mean, I was so far detached
from the physical world,
I was outside myself watching,
and I looked comatose actually.
And he was quite frightened.
He thought whoa.
What happened?
He was like, are you there?
Are you there?
And as I was observing
from outside of my body,
I thought, what a shame that
he's so concerned because this
is such a wonderful
experience, but it had nothing
to do, unfortunately, with
connecting with each other.
And that's another thing is
this whole thing about rising
and rising and connection,
and a lot of people
put a value on this rising to a
state where you're out of body.
You don't want to be
out of body if you're
having an ecstatic experience.
I would assume you want to be
very present and in your body.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
Because you could be meditating.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
You can do that, getting
out of the body, meditating.
And so that's what
I found in it was
it became a very
self-oriented thing.
It really wasn't a
connected thing at all.
And I don't know if you've
heard that kind of experience
with other people like
you said smoking grass.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
I mean, I think that's a
typical-- I've heard that
from a lot of people,
that it ends up
being two people together
having solo experiences.
>>REGINA: Right.
So that's not exactly the
connected, ecstatic sex
that you're talking about and
that we can groom ourselves
toward with.
>>EATOUGH: But a
couple that wants
a little variety
in their love life,
to do that every once in a
while, it's not a bad thing,
it's just different.
>>REGINA: It's just different.
It's just not
necessarily connected.
>>EATOUGH: If it's instead
of really connecting,
you might want to look at that.
>>REGINA: Well, I wouldn't
replicate that experience now.
>>EATOUGH: I don't mean that.
One.
>>REGINA: It was great for
myself, but very frightening
for the other person.
What about the notion of tantra,
because well, I live in Sedona,
and in Sedona, you see a lot of
tantra groups coming through,
a lot of the tantra temples.
>>EATOUGH: I've got the
same thing going on.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And they've
been shut down.
You know the police
officials have come and shut
a lot of these places down.
>>EATOUGH: Oh, really?
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
In Phoenix and Sedona.
>>EATOUGH: Shut 'em
down all over the place.
>>REGINA: No.
They've shut a lot of
them down because people
are seeking this
is something more,
but this isn't really
again what you're
talking about either
in a lot of cases
because when I see the
groups come into town, to me
it's more like
something from the '70s
as you know sex, drugs,
and rock and roll.
Let's just all get
high on each other
and have sex with each other.
But I'm not hearing too much
about the spiritual component
of it in a lot of these
tantric practices now.
That call themselves tantric.
>>EATOUGH: I think
that the ancients who
developed the Dalit sexual
practices and tantra practices
knew a lot.
We've touched on some of that.
But so did Jesus,
but Christianity
has been distorted into so many
different lines that you know,
you might say are very
different from what
the original intention of
Christianity might have been
or what I like to think it was.
And this is certainly
true with tantra,
that tantra came to the
west along with Zen Buddhism
and a lot of Eastern
spiritual traditions,
and then all of
these different-- I
wouldn't even call them lineages
anymore relative to tantra.
First of all, sexuality is
only one line of tantra.
There's, like, eight limbs of
tantra, and sex is only one
of them.
But I think they've
gotten distorted a lot.
People have taken
little bits and pieces,
and it's been sort of a way
to do exactly what you were
describing, and in
some cases, I've
known couples who have gone to
tantra workshops and walked out
because it can be
very predatory.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what I'm speaking of.
>>EATOUGH: And
the other side is,
I've been in tantra
workshops where they're
very rich and supportive
to individuals and couples
and very, very nurturing
and very high frequency.
>>REGINA: Sounds like you just
need to know who these people,
these facilitators--
>>EATOUGH: So, if that's
something you want to explore,
you need to talk
to the leaders who
are going to be
running the groups,
ask for references, people
that have been in the groups,
and just really try to learn
what you can and tune in
and follow your intuition.
And don't be afraid to walk
out if it doesn't feel right.
>>REGINA: OK.
So good.
Thank you for that, because
a lot of people are thinking,
oh I've read about
a tantric workshop,
so they're not
all created equal.
And the reality is,
even if it's one
that's skewed more
toward just physical sex,
maybe that is right for you.
>>EATOUGH: Sure.
>>REGINA: So you just, like
you say, just research,
figure out what
your priorities are
and how you want to approach
it, and go from there.
What about the subject
of body imagery?
I mean, and here,
we're trying to get
into this open state of
acceptance of self, acceptance
of other and connection,
yet we have an epidemic
of self-loathing in the
Western world because
of really entrainment by
the advertising agencies,
and you can call it whomever,
where women, in particular,
seem to have real
self-destructive beliefs
about their own bodies.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And it's really sad because it's
effecting younger and younger
ages to where young girls
are having eating disorders
because they're trying to look
the way they think they're
supposed to look by
the standards they see
in magazines, and in
film, and so forth.
And it's really sad.
Most men don't necessarily
love skinny women,
and yet that seems
to be the direction.
And of course, real
women walking around
aren't air brushed and trimmed
for-- aren't Photoshopped.
>>REGINA: They don't
have a contract that
says you can't go to work
until you reach a size
0 to 2, either.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And eating is a sensual
experience for a lot of people.
Now, of course, eating
can also be an emotional--
>>REGINA: --issue.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And we could talk
about all of that.
>>REGINA: And you're talking
about dysfunction, obesity
and all.
I'm not talking about that.
>>EATOUGH: And you
know, as people
get older, their body--
especially menopause,
their bodies
change, and there is
a lot of self-loathing
and concern.
A lot of men have
the problem, too,
and of course, there's other
issues as men get older.
>>REGINA: How do
you guide people
that really are starting
with that kind of a mindset?
I mean, they want
to be connected,
but they're so shy, so
embarrassed, I mean, just can't
bear to be seen
naked, for example.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And it's also a real issue for
people, especially women, who
end a relationship and they're
like in their '40s or '50s,
and now they're getting
back out into dating.
And it's like, ah.
What am I going to do?
>>REGINA: I'm not perfect.
Yeah.
>>EATOUGH: Right.
And I think one
thing they've proven,
there's been lots
of research on this,
that one thing that men find
most attractive in a woman
is confidence--
>>REGINA: That is true.
>>EATOUGH: --and smiling.
>>REGINA: Look at Queen Latifah.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
She's just a great example.
>>REGINA: She's very sexy.
Yeah.
>>EATOUGH: And it's
confidence and smiling
at that particular
man and in general.
But giving him the smile,
the smile, the invitation.
And these are things, in
addition to shiny hair,
which is why-- and this is
like a whole biological thing
because shiny hair evolutionary
wise indicated fertility
and so forth, estrogen.
So these are things
that we can all do.
We can all improve
our self-confidence.
We can all smile, and we
can all get hair products
to shine our hair.
I think those are
the most important.
Now, when it gets to point of
being naked and being in bed,
men care-- I mean, yes.
If somebody is really obese,
I mean, some men go for that,
but more don't.
But an extra 10 or
15 pounds even 20
is not really the
issue for most men.
They want somebody who's
into her sexuality.
They want a woman
who's sensual, who's
confident in her
sexuality, who can
be spontaneous and expressive
sexually, and who is into them.
Every lover, male, female,
otherwise, heterosexual,
homosexual, bi, wants their
partner to be into them.
Right?
>>REGINA: Well, I
mean, the truth is yes.
>>EATOUGH: That's what's
the most exciting and sexy
is if your partner is
like totally jazzed,
turned on to you,
and wants to help
you have pleasure and share it.
>>REGINA: --wants to connect.
And also numbers don't lie.
There are over 7
billion of us, very few
have the absolutely
perfect Hollywood
version of perfect body, yet we
manage to procreate just fine.
>>EATOUGH: And I
was in a workshop,
and a woman asked a
question to this man.
It was a woman's workshop
and a male panel.
And I don't remember what the
question was, but this one
guy-- because it was
about this general topic--
and one man said,
no matter what shape
your butt's in there's some
guy out there digging on it.
>>REGINA: That's true.
That's true.
>>EATOUGH: Candle light
is always a good thing,
because candle light as
well is very flattering.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this was years ago, I
read a very interesting bit
of research that
had been conducted
that was showing at the
time "Omni Magazine."
And it was about male and female
self-perception of their bodies
and how they felt
about themselves,
but also what they thought
the other sex felt about them.
And the findings
were that women--
you had to choose body
types by way of imagery,
and there were other elements
to the little self test
that these women
were administered.
And the women ended up thinking
that they were fatter and less
attractive than
they actually were.
>>EATOUGH: And the
men were the opposite.
>>REGINA: The men
were the opposite.
>>EATOUGH: I don't know
where that came from.
>>REGINA: They'd say,
"Which body most likely
reflects yours?"
And the women would put the
one that wasn't as shapely
or was overweight more so
than she might even be.
The men went, which body
most closely resembles yours?
And they'd choose Mr. Adonis.
And It's like,
what's up with that?
>>EATOUGH: I wish I knew.
Although I do
think there's a bit
of a trend to men being
a little more conscious.
>>REGINA: --more
self-conscious now.
That's true because Hollywood's
doing the same thing.
>>EATOUGH: I think
you're absolutely right,
and I don't know
where it came from.
>>REGINA: I found it
fascinating because it
does create this problem
with women in general
on the self-confidence sexually.
>>EATOUGH: But do
other thing really
had to do with the spontaneity.
I did a survey of
my subscriber list,
and although I did have
specific kind of multiple choice
questions, I also had
two open-ended questions
about what they
wanted most and what
they were-- biggest
concerns and so forth.
And it took a long time to sort
out these free-form answers,
but I started to
see these patterns.
And I noticed that
men wanted to be
able to satisfy their
partners in bed.
Of course, women
want to be satisfied.
That's great.
That's sort of that
yin-yang thing.
And men wanted their
partners-- and this is the part
that kind of relates
to what you're
saying about being
sexually attracted-- men
want their partners to be
able to let go, get out
of their heads, and
be spontaneous in bed.
What did women want?
They wanted to be able
to get out there heads,
to be able to let go, and
be spontaneous in bed.
So that's something
we can work on
for ourselves is to be able
to get more into our body
and be more free and spontaneous
and to trust more and all
that because that's
going to make
men want to have
sex with you again.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
Well, in lieu of
that, society also
has some other
patterns, particularly
men who are feeling
disconnected, dissatisfied,
and what not, in the
form of pornography,
which is really rampant now.
And it's just like video
games in an entrainment level.
Video games are entraining
these little boys, drone killer,
killing via drone
is just a game.
What happens when you're--
>>EATOUGH: Disassociation.
>>REGINA: --deeply
involved in pornography?
I mean, I know of some
guys who can't even
have sex with a woman without
watching porn at the same time.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
So that's a disorder.
I think it's unfortunate
that-- I mean,
I don't have a judgment
against porn in general.
But I think so many young
guys getting into it so early,
they start to create
expectations around sexuality.
Right?
And it's all about them
rather than as much of a
shared giving experience.
And the rapidity
with which women
are going to get turned
on is totally distorted.
And so it's just
it's a distortion.
So then they have to
learn real sex after that.
Maybe it's great for
letting them understand
body parts and all that,
but I think it's a problem.
And there has been
some research that's
shown that men who have
deep and fulfilling sex
lives with a partner
that they love,
their porn
consumption goes down.
It tends to.
>>REGINA: So it can
be chicken or egg.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right. .
Yeah that makes sense.
I'm just looking at it more
from a brain entrainment
point of view, and
it does make sense.
It's not just that an
expectation goes up.
There are certain chemicals
the brain secretes
when you're in states of
extreme excitation, whether,
like I said, whether
it's a video game--
>>EATOUGH: True.
>>REGINA: --or whether it's
pornography or anything that's
extreme.
>>EATOUGH: And it can also
create a Pavlovian response
because men are
typically, they're
self-stimulating when
they're watching porn.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>EATOUGH: And so
then they often tend
to not-- they can move in
toward premature ejaculation,
because they're not
interacting with a person,
they're not taking that
time, so now they've
got their own stimulus response,
sort of in a short time frame.
>>REGINA: And as men are
more visually oriented
than women to begin with, then
what happens when you're really
watching porn stars
as your reflection
of the feminine essence.
Then how do you match
that in real life?
>>EATOUGH: Well, there's quite
a bit of therapeutic business
for men trying to wean
themselves from porn.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, I'm not surprised at that.
OK.
Now, let's go into
the resonances.
We talked about this a little
bit in the last interview,
but I want to go deeper
into the musical portion
and what you've done
there and the layering.
I want to hear a couple of
stories about how people
are responding to this music,
"Love Unbound, Music for Better
Sex" that we have here.
Tell us about maybe
a couple tough cases
that just thought they
could never weave it
back together maybe that
had some success with this?
>>EATOUGH: Sure.
People who could never
weave it back together.
>>REGINA: Meaning the
relationship was so fractured,
where they've been able
to use technology even,
to find their way back together.
>>EATOUGH: So basically
to kind of give you
the context, these four
keys that I presented
in this workshop I eventually
developed into a lovemaking
enhancement system,
and it had this music
for lovemaking in
it, but it also
had about two and a half
hours worth of information
really where I was just kind
of teaching them these four
keys to sexual ecstasy including
ways to build and circulate
sexual energy and
also addressed,
like, four common obstacles
people experience on the road
to deeper intimacy and
how to overcome them.
And then there was a third CD--
so I called those first two
CDs, "The Living Room Seminar."
Then the third CD was
"The Bedroom Seminar,"
which was taking these
exercises I did in this workshop
into a more intimate,
sensual, sexual situation.
But basically incorporating
these four keys
you've learned about
intellectually,
in your beta brain, into
your physical and emotional
experience with your partner.
Because we don't really
learn things until we
experience them.
Like you can learn
about driving cars,
but until you get in
that driver's seat,
you don't really know
how to drive a car.
So I guide people into
a state of deep intimacy
and then segue-- non-sexual
intimacy, segueing
into sensual massage, and
then sort of a guided foreplay
all the while incorporating
these keys of trust,
entrainment,
absorption, and building
and circulating sexual
energy, and all the ways
that we've been
talking about and more.
And this music all the while
is playing on this CD as well,
and then it ends with about
20 minutes of just the music.
Now, the music for lovemaking,
actually it's two CDs,
because what we found is that
it helps-- one of the attributes
that this music with these
resonant frequencies,
which I'm calling them
auditory pheromones, is it
helps break up patterns.
So we talked about how we
could have blocks in our energy
system, and it helps to
sort of like naturally
break up patterns.
We worked really hard
to get that in there.
>>REGINA: It's hard to
do it with talk therapy.
It doesn't work.
>>EATOUGH: It doesn't work.
Because the paterns go in on the
physical and emotional level,
so the mental level
isn't really going
to be the access root to
finding and dissolving those.
But energy frequencies can help
do that very gently and softly.
But people wanted to be able to
have the benefit of breaking up
patterns without listening to
music that was going to-- so
this music for lovemaking, you
can't listen while driving.
I learned that the hard way
when we were developing it.
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>EATOUGH: I was driving out of
the Oakland airport one night,
and I know the way home.
Right?
And I got totally lost, and I
thought, what's going on here?
>>REGINA: Theta.
>>EATOUGH: Oh, I am totally
spaced out on this music.
So we had to call my attorney.
We slapped a warning on the
packaging and then said,
people want this.
So we actually took
the same music with--
and threw some beta
entrainment in it
so we would have-- keep a
little more conscious awareness,
and a slightly different
formula of resonant frequencies
so people could enjoy the
same benefits of breaking up
patterns and moving
their sensual energy,
and they could listen
to it all the time.
And so there's a system of
five which includes a book,
and coaching calls, and
stuff, so that's a system,
but then people really
just wanted the music.
So I just recently repackaged
just the music, but both CDs.
>>REGINA: That's
a brilliant idea,
because it bypasses the mind
and all the heavy lifting
the mind has to
do to try to find
its way around its
obstacle courses.
>>EATOUGH: Yes.
I've had a number
of women tell me
they've purchased
the whole program
because they wanted to work
with their own sexual energy
and they often
were single women,
and they wanted to prepare
for the next relationship.
And I got a beautiful
series of emails
from one woman who had been
single for many, many years,
really wanted a partner, just
wasn't even meeting anybody
although she was trying.
And she felt that her sexual
energy was kind of blocked
and restricted and so forth.
So she got the set.
She was listening to the music.
Mostly, she was listening to
the music for everyday use
while she was
driving to work back
and forth for a couple of weeks.
And she said, you
know, she started
feeling more open, more sensual,
more in touch with her body,
and men started approaching her
for the first time in her life.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>EATOUGH: And it was just like
she was just more receptive
and just felt more feminine--
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>EATOUGH: --and more juicy.
And she signed off
as "in a relationship
with one amazing
47-year-old man."
>>REGINA: Oh, wonderful.
>>EATOUGH: So it was just a
great testimonial to that.
>>REGINA: It makes sense.
That's where we're
going as a culture.
We're going to that.
And the healing of
the future is all
going to be frequency driven.
>>EATOUGH: And I had a couple.
This guy, he and his wife were
in their 30s, had three kids,
and they had a
great relationship.
Every standard, you
know, his standard
except for their sex life.
And they hadn't had sex
until they got married
because that's what
she wanted, and he'd
had some other great
experiences before they met.
But he said it was very
passionate before they
got married, so he was
really looking forward
to that honeymoon.
So it was very disappointing.
They had sex like twice in
a week on their honeymoon,
and she was just like stiff,
and that passionate woman
he knew-- where did she go?
And so they used the system.
They went through
the whole thing.
They did do the guided
experience, that third CD.
And he said they started
going into this intimacy.
He said it was like-- this
is before it even go sexual.
He said he tapped into
this love for her.
He felt like he hadn't
felt since 13 years
before when they were
standing at the altar saying
their vows to each other.
He tapped into
that love for her.
And then as they
did that, and also
when they were just using
the music for lovemaking,
he said it's like she
became this wild woman,
this spontaneous woman.
It's like she just let go.
And they found themselves using
all these different positions
that they never tried and
just sex went on longer.
It was more passionate.
She was just freer, and it
was just really wonderful.
>>REGINA: Well, what a service
you've done in creating these.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
And I get that kind
of story a lot.
>>REGINA: --a lot.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for sharing both
of those experiences with us.
We only have a few
minutes left now,
and so I wanted to
ask you what advice
do you give to parents
for sons and daughters
before they even
set down the road
into super unhealthy patterns.
Because the culture is pretty
aggressive right now, sexually.
Victoria's Secret is
now for 13-year-olds.
It didn't used to be.
>>EATOUGH: Well one is, it's
really important for boys
and girls to be
guided to really be
aware of their own
values, their own needs
and how it's really tough,
but to help keep them out
of situations where they're
going to get lots of pressure.
I mean, there's lots of
pressure in my community
for middle school girls
getting pressured to give
blow jobs to their boyfriends.
>>REGINA: In the
bathroom at school even.
>>EATOUGH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Little kids.
>>EATOUGH: But
guide them to-- you
are valuable in and of yourself.
Because a particular person
wants you to do something,
it's not worth the trade-offs.
And kind of help them see
the potential future in it.
But also, I think
parents do well
to cultivate their own love
relationship because there's
this not only their
modeling but their energy
has a huge spillover
effect in the family.
And when kids start
to see that there's
more potentially than
just sex and that somebody
demanding sexual favors
or anything from you
when you're not ready
for it is not love.
It's not trustworthy,
and I think
it's just really important
to plant these values.
And I think it's
just really hard,
and I think you've got to start
talking to kids really early.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I thinks so too.
Well, thank you so much
for both interviews.
Very enlightening and for
creating this technology,
I think a lot of
people are going
to be interested in tapping
in on a frequency level
to themselves.
>>EATOUGH: I do
want to say we've
heard a lot about enhancing
libido for both men and women
when it's starting to
peter down later in life.
>>REGINA: You know, we never
got to that conversation.
Whole separate conversation.
Another time.
Thank you so much, Ellen.
>>EATOUGH: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I appreciate it.
For more of Ellen's wisdom on
developing an open, honest,
and fulfilling, even
ecstatic love life,
you can connect with her through
her website extatica.com,
which is E-X-T-A-T-I-C-A
extatica.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]